add query watch docs for the manual managment of runaway watch (#14368)
pingcap/docs: tidb-resource-control.md

>
> This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

> A runaway query is a query that takes excessive time or resources than expected. The term **runaway queries** is used in the following to describe the management of the Runaway Query function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A runaway query is a query that consumes more time or resources than expected. The term **runaway queries** is used in the following to describe the feature of managing the runaway query.
```

> - Starting from v7.2.0, the resource control feature introduces the management of runaway queries. You can set criteria for a resource group to identify runaway queries and automatically take actions to prevent them from exhausting resources and affecting other queries. You can manage runaway queries for a resource group by configuring the `QUERY_LIMIT` field in [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) or [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Starting from v7.2.0, the resource control feature introduces the management of runaway queries. You can set criteria for a resource group to identify runaway queries and automatically take actions to prevent them from exhausting resources and affecting other queries. You can manage runaway queries for a resource group by including the `QUERY_LIMIT` field in [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) or [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md).
```

> - Starting from v7.3.0, the resource control feature introduces manual management of runaway watches, enabling quick identification of runaway queries for a given SQL statement or Digest. You can execute the statement [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) to manually manage the runaway queries identification list in the resource group.

Author: ```suggestion
- Starting from v7.3.0, the resource control feature introduces manual management of runaway watches, enabling quick identification of runaway queries for a given SQL statement or Digest. You can execute the statement [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) to manually manage the runaway queries watch list in the resource group.
```

- `COOLDOWN`: the execution priority of the query is lowered to the lowest level. The query continues to execute with the lowest priority and does not occupy resources of other operations.
- `KILL`: the identified query is automatically terminated and reports an error `Query execution was interrupted, identified as runaway query`.

> To avoid too many concurrent runaway queries that exhaust system resources before being identified by conditions, the resource control feature introduces a quick identification mechanism. By using the `WATCH` clause, when a query is identified as a runaway query, the current TiDB instance marks the matching queries as runaway queries immediately in the next period of time (defined by `DURATION`), and takes the corresponding actions, instead of waiting for them to be identified by conditions. The `KILL` operation reports an error `Quarantined and interrupted because of being in runaway watch list`. In summary, it can be assumed that `WATCH` puts the identified queries into the runaway queries identification list, and these queries are identified directly before they are executed, thus achieving rapid identification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid too many concurrent runaway queries that exhaust system resources before being identified by conditions, the resource control feature introduces a quick identification mechanism. By using the `WATCH` clause, when a query is identified as a runaway query, the current TiDB instance marks the matching queries as runaway queries immediately in the next period of time (defined by `DURATION`), and takes the corresponding actions, instead of waiting for them to be identified by conditions. The `KILL` operation reports an error `Quarantined and interrupted because of being in runaway watch list`. In summary, it can be assumed that `WATCH` puts the queries matched into the runaway queries watch list, and these queries are identified directly before they are executed, thus achieving quick identification.
```

    ALTER RESOURCE GROUP rg1 QUERY_LIMIT=NULL;
    ```

#### `QUERY WATCH` parameters

For more information about `QUERY WATCH` parameters, see [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md).

> - The `RESOURCE GROUP` is used to specify a resource group. The identification of the runaway queries added by this statement will be applied to this resource group. This parameter can be omitted, and when it is omitted, it applies to the `default` resource group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `RESOURCE GROUP` is used to specify a resource group. The identification of the runaway queries added by this statement will be applied to the sessions of this particular resource group. This parameter can be omitted, and when it is omitted, it applies to the `default` resource group.
```

- The meaning of `ACTION` is the same as `QUERY LIMIT`. This parameter can be omitted. When it is omitted, it means that the corresponding action after identification adopts the `ACTION` configured by `QUERY LIMIT` in the resource group. If there is no `ACTION` configured in the resource group, an error will be reported.
- The `QueryWatchTextOption` parameter has three options: `SQL DIGEST`, `PLAN DIGEST`, and `SQL TEXT`.
    - `SQL DIGEST` is the same as that of `SIMILAR`, and the parameters immediately following it can be strings, user-defined variables, and other expressions with string computation results, provided that the required string length is 64, which is the same as the definition of Digest in TiDB.
    - The meaning of `PLAN DIGEST` is the same as `PLAN`. The input parameter is the Digest string.
    - `SQL TEXT` can be used as a pattern match on the input SQL as a raw string (`EXACT`), or parsed and compiled into `SQL DIGEST` (`SIMILAR`) or `PLAN DIGEST` (`PLAN`), depending on the parameters immediately following.

> 1. When no resource group is specified, the runaway queries identification list is managed by the default resource group. You can add identification items to the runaway query identification list for the default resource group. You need to set `QUERY LIMIT` for the default resource group in advance.

Author: ```suggestion
1. When no resource group is specified, the runaway queries identification list is managed by the default resource group. You can add watch items to the runaway query watch list for the default resource group. You need to set `QUERY LIMIT` for the default resource group in advance.
```

    ```sql
    QUERY WATCH ADD ACTION KILL SQL TEXT EXACT TO 'select * from test.t2';
    ```

> 2. Add an identification item to the runaway query identification list for the `rg1` resource group via SQL DIGEST. When `ACTION` is not specified, the `ACTION` option already configured for the `rg1` resource group is used.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Add a watch item to the runaway query watch list for the `rg1` resource group via SQL DIGEST. When `ACTION` is not specified, the `ACTION` option already configured for the `rg1` resource group is used.
```

    ```sql
    QUERY WATCH ADD RESOURCE GROUP rg1 SQL TEXT SIMILAR TO 'select * from test.t2';
    ```

> 3. Add an identification item to the runaway query identification list for the `rg1` resource group via PLAN DIGEST.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Add an watch item to the runaway query watch list for the `rg1` resource group via PLAN DIGEST.
```

- The meaning of `ACTION` is the same as `QUERY LIMIT`. This parameter can be omitted. When it is omitted, it means that the corresponding action after identification adopts the `ACTION` configured by `QUERY LIMIT` in the resource group, and the action does not change with the `QUERY LIMIT` configuration. If there is no `ACTION` configured in the resource group, an error will be reported.
- The `QueryWatchTextOption` parameter has three options: `SQL DIGEST`, `PLAN DIGEST`, and `SQL TEXT`.
    - `SQL DIGEST` is the same as that of `SIMILAR`, and the parameters immediately following it can be strings, user-defined variables, and other expressions with string computation results, provided that the required string length is 64, which is the same as the definition of Digest in TiDB.
    - The meaning of `PLAN DIGEST` is the same as `PLAN`. The input parameter is the Digest string.
    - `SQL TEXT` can be used as a pattern match on the input SQL as a raw string (`EXACT`), or parsed and compiled into `SQL DIGEST` (`SIMILAR`) or `PLAN DIGEST` (`PLAN`), depending on the parameters immediately following.

> 1. When no resource group is specified, the runaway queries identification list is managed by the default resource group. You can add watch items to the runaway query watch list for the default resource group. You need to set `QUERY LIMIT` for the default resource group in advance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a matching feature to the runaway query watch list for the default resource group (you need to set `QUERY LIMIT` for the default resource group in advance).
```

    ```sql
    QUERY WATCH ADD ACTION KILL SQL TEXT EXACT TO 'select * from test.t2';
    ```

> 2. Add a watch item to the runaway query watch list for the `rg1` resource group via SQL DIGEST. When `ACTION` is not specified, the `ACTION` option already configured for the `rg1` resource group is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a matching feature to the runaway query watch list for the `rg1` resource group by parsing the SQL into SQL Digest. When `ACTION` is not specified, the `ACTION` option already configured for the `rg1` resource group is used.
```

    ```sql
    QUERY WATCH ADD RESOURCE GROUP rg1 SQL TEXT SIMILAR TO 'select * from test.t2';
    ```

> 3. Add an watch item to the runaway query watch list for the `rg1` resource group via PLAN DIGEST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a matching feature to the runaway query watch list for the `rg1` resource group using `PLAN DIGEST`.
```

    ```sql
    QUERY WATCH ADD RESOURCE GROUP rg1 ACTION KILL PLAN DIGEST 'd08bc323a934c39dc41948b0a073725be3398479b6fa4f6dd1db2a9b115f7f57';
    ```

> 4. Get the watch item ID by querying `information_schema.runaway_watches` and delete the watch item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get the watch item ID by querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` and delete the watch item.
```

    ALTER RESOURCE GROUP rg1 QUERY_LIMIT=NULL;
    ```

#### `QUERY WATCH` parameters

> For more information about `QUERY WATCH` parameters, see [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the synopsis of `QUERY WATCH`, see [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md).
```

For more information about `QUERY WATCH` parameters, see [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md).

> - The `RESOURCE GROUP` is used to specify a resource group. The identification of the runaway queries added by this statement will be applied to the sessions of this particular resource group. This parameter can be omitted, and when it is omitted, it applies to the `default` resource group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `RESOURCE GROUP` is used to specify a resource group. The watch of the runaway queries added by this statement will be applied to the sessions of this particular resource group. This parameter can be omitted, and when it is omitted, it applies to the `default` resource group.
```

    - `identify` means that it matches the condition of the runaway query.
    - `watch` means that it matches the quick identification rule in the watch list.

> + The `information_schema.runaway_watches` table contains records of rapid identification rules for runaway queries. See [`RUNAWAY_WATCHES`](/information-schema/information-schema-runaway-watches.md) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
+ The `information_schema.runaway_watches` table contains records of quick identification rules for runaway queries. See [`RUNAWAY_WATCHES`](/information-schema/information-schema-runaway-watches.md) for details.
```
